README.md, before:

# PedigreePal
#### Blockchain-based Dog Pedigree and Ownership Verification System

PedigreePal aims to develop a decentralized, secure, and easily accessible system for storing and verifying dog pedigree (ancestry) and ownership information. By leveraging blockchain technology and integrating it with existing pet microchip technology, we will create a user-friendly dApp (decentralized application) that will allow users to access a dog's pedigree information and prove the authenticity of their breed, regardless of location or kennel club membership. The system will also enable veterinarians to access owner information in case a dog is lost or requires medical attention.

Currently, there is no decentralized, secure, and accessible solution to verify a dog's pedigree and ownership information. Registration with traditional kennel clubs can be expensive and time-consuming, and the authenticity of a dog's pedigree can sometimes be falsified by unethical breeders. Currently, pet microchips are used to tie a dog to: 1. a unique identifier that can be added to a pet registry database, 2. the pet’s name and description (including breed, color, age, etc.), 3. the pet owner’s contact information, and 4. the veterinarian’s contact information [1]. A secure and transparent system is needed to provide accurate and reliable pedigree, identifier and ownership information for pet owners, breeders, and other stakeholders.

## Objectives
The main objectives of PedigreePal are to:
- Develop a blockchain-based system for storing and verifying dog pedigree and ownership information.
- Integrate the system with existing pet microchip technology to facilitate easy pet registration and verification of pedigree
information.
- Create a user-friendly dApp for accessing and verifying dog pedigree information.
- Ensure the privacy and security of sensitive information, such as owner and breeder contact details.
- Ensure sensitive information can only be accessed by authorized users.

## Tasks [2]
- [ ] Conduct preliminary research to understand how blockchain technology can be used to store and verify data.
- [ ] Learn Solidity, a programming language used to develop smart contracts that run on Ethereum, and use it to develop smart contracts to ensure the authenticity and immutability of the information.
  - [ ] Ensure the system can encrypt and protect sensitive information stored on the blockchain, such as owner contact details.
  - [ ] Authorized users (registered breeders, veterinarians, animal shelters, etc.) must be able to decrypt this sensitive information, while preventing access to unauthorized users.
- [ ] Develop a user-friendly dApp that allows users to access and verify dog pedigree information.
    - [ ] Ensure the dApp is easy to use and can be accessed from any device.
    - [ ] Ensure the dApp is secure and can only be accessed by authorized users.
- [ ] Integrate the system with existing pet microchip technology to facilitate easy pet registration and verification of pedigree information.

## Risks [3]
* The stakeholders may be hesitant to adopt the system due to the cost of integrating the system with existing pet microchip technology.
* Challenges with integrating the system with existing pet microchip technology.
* Privacy and security concerns regarding the storage of sensitive information on the blockchain.
* Ensuring the system is secure against malicious attacks.

## Deliverables
- A blockchain-based system for storing and verifying dog pedigree and ownership information.
- A user-friendly dApp for accessing and verifying dog pedigree information.
- A system that can be integrated with existing pet microchip technology to facilitate easy pet registration and verification of pedigree information.

## References
[1] “What information is stored on a pet microchip?" prompt. ChatGPT, Mar. 2023, OpenAI GPT-4, 04 Apr. 2023, https://chat.openai.com/chat.  
[2] “Give a task break down of this project” prompt. ChatGPT, Mar. 2023, OpenAI GPT-4, 04 Apr. 2023, https://chat.openai.com/chat.  
[3] “List major risks in this project” prompt. ChatGPT, Mar. 2023, OpenAI GPT-4, 04 Apr. 2023, https://chat.openai.com/chat.

Commit message:

Setting up hardhat and npm, using shrinkwrap to maintain node dependencies

README.md, after:

# PedigreePal
#### Blockchain-based Dog Pedigree and Ownership Verification System

## Getting Started
- Install Node.js (version 18+), if you don't already have it (see [this Hardhat link](https://hardhat.org/tutorial/setting-up-the-environment) for directions).
- With `npm` now installed, install the `shrinkpack` package **as a global package**:
    `npm install --global shrinkpack`
    - [Shrinkpack](https://www.npmjs.com/package/shrinkpack) allows us to maintain our `node_modules` with source control, while eliminating the risk of environment-based dependencies.

## Building
- Any time you modify the dependencies list (like if you add a new hardhat plugin), run `shrinkwrap` on the repo and commit these changes:
    `shrinkwrap pedigree-pal`

## Summary
PedigreePal aims to develop a decentralized, secure, and easily accessible system for storing and verifying dog pedigree (ancestry) and ownership information. By leveraging blockchain technology and integrating it with existing pet microchip technology, we will create a user-friendly dApp (decentralized application) that will allow users to access a dog's pedigree information and prove the authenticity of their breed, regardless of location or kennel club membership. The system will also enable veterinarians to access owner information in case a dog is lost or requires medical attention.

Currently, there is no decentralized, secure, and accessible solution to verify a dog's pedigree and ownership information. Registration with traditional kennel clubs can be expensive and time-consuming, and the authenticity of a dog's pedigree can sometimes be falsified by unethical breeders. Currently, pet microchips are used to tie a dog to: 1. a unique identifier that can be added to a pet registry database, 2. the pet’s name and description (including breed, color, age, etc.), 3. the pet owner’s contact information, and 4. the veterinarian’s contact information [1]. A secure and transparent system is needed to provide accurate and reliable pedigree, identifier and ownership information for pet owners, breeders, and other stakeholders.

## Objectives
The main objectives of PedigreePal are to:
- Develop a blockchain-based system for storing and verifying dog pedigree and ownership information.
- Integrate the system with existing pet microchip technology to facilitate easy pet registration and verification of pedigree
information.
- Create a user-friendly dApp for accessing and verifying dog pedigree information.
- Ensure the privacy and security of sensitive information, such as owner and breeder contact details.
- Ensure sensitive information can only be accessed by authorized users.

## Tasks [2]
- [ ] Conduct preliminary research to understand how blockchain technology can be used to store and verify data.
- [ ] Learn Solidity, a programming language used to develop smart contracts that run on Ethereum, and use it to develop smart contracts to ensure the authenticity and immutability of the information.
  - [ ] Ensure the system can encrypt and protect sensitive information stored on the blockchain, such as owner contact details.
  - [ ] Authorized users (registered breeders, veterinarians, animal shelters, etc.) must be able to decrypt this sensitive information, while preventing access to unauthorized users.
- [ ] Develop a user-friendly dApp that allows users to access and verify dog pedigree information.
    - [ ] Ensure the dApp is easy to use and can be accessed from any device.
    - [ ] Ensure the dApp is secure and can only be accessed by authorized users.
- [ ] Integrate the system with existing pet microchip technology to facilitate easy pet registration and verification of pedigree information.

## Risks [3]
* The stakeholders may be hesitant to adopt the system due to the cost of integrating the system with existing pet microchip technology.
* Challenges with integrating the system with existing pet microchip technology.
* Privacy and security concerns regarding the storage of sensitive information on the blockchain.
* Ensuring the system is secure against malicious attacks.

## Deliverables
- A blockchain-based system for storing and verifying dog pedigree and ownership information.
- A user-friendly dApp for accessing and verifying dog pedigree information.
- A system that can be integrated with existing pet microchip technology to facilitate easy pet registration and verification of pedigree information.

## References
[1] “What information is stored on a pet microchip?" prompt. ChatGPT, Mar. 2023, OpenAI GPT-4, 04 Apr. 2023, https://chat.openai.com/chat.  
[2] “Give a task break down of this project” prompt. ChatGPT, Mar. 2023, OpenAI GPT-4, 04 Apr. 2023, https://chat.openai.com/chat.  
[3] “List major risks in this project” prompt. ChatGPT, Mar. 2023, OpenAI GPT-4, 04 Apr. 2023, https://chat.openai.com/chat.
